Improve & Fix README.md (#225)
src-d/engine: README.md

> # source{d} Engine

Reviewer: The image below is already a kind of fancy header with the exact same text. I think this is redundant.

[Slack](http://bit.ly/src-d-community) •
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/sourcedtech)

## Introduction

> The source{d} Engine exposes powerful [Universal ASTs](#babelfish-uast) to analyze your code and a SQL engine to analyze your git history:

Reviewer: If the project name is `source{d} Engine`, can we say _The_ source{d} Engine? It feels weird, to me it's like saying "send a PR to _the_ GitHub"

Reviewer 2: I replaced all `the source{d} Engine` occurrences with just `source{d} Engine`

- **Code Retrieval**: retrieve and store git repositories as a dataset.

> - **Language-Agnostic Code Analysis**: automatically identify languages, parse source code, and extract the pieces that matter in a completely language-agnostic way.

Reviewer 3: Some of this was pre-existing, but the repetition of "language-agnostic" seems unnecessary. I suggest, maybe, "Automatically identify languages, parse source code, and extract the pieces that matter with language-independent queries." or words to that effect.

- **Git Analysis**: powerful SQL based analysis on top of your git repositories.
- **Querying With Familiar APIs**: analyze your code through powerful friendly APIs, such as SQL, gRPC, REST, and various client libraries.

You can access a rendered version of this documentation at [docs.sourced.tech/engine](https://docs.sourced.tech/engine).

## Contents

- [Quick Start](#quick-start)

>   - [Requirements](#1.-install-docker)

Reviewer: Links do not work (at least in GitHub)

- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)

## Quick Start

Follow the steps below to get started with source{d} Engine.

### 1. Install Docker

Follow these instructions based on your OS:

#### Docker on macOS

Follow instructions at [Docker for Mac](https://store.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac). You may also use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

  ```bash
  brew cask install docker
  ```

#### Docker on Ubuntu Linux

Follow instructions at [Docker for Ubuntu Linux](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/#install-docker-ce-1):

  ```bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install docker-ce
  ```

#### Docker on Arch Linux

Follow instructions at [Docker for Arch Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Docker#Installation):

  ```bash
  sudo pacman -S docker
  ```

### 2. Install source{d} Engine

Download the **[latest release](https://github.com/src-d/engine/releases)** for MacOS (Darwin) or Linux.

> #### engine on macOS

Reviewer: Should we capitalize `Engine`? (and below for Linux and Windows)

Double-click on the tar file to extract it.

Open your terminal and move the binary to your local bin folder to make it executable from any directory:

```bash
sudo mv ~/replace/path/to/engine_darwin_amd64/srcd /usr/local/bin/
```

#### engine on Linux

Extract the contents of the tar file from your terminal:

```bash
tar -xvf ~/replace/path/to/engine_REPLACEVERSION_linux_amd64.tar.gz
```

Move the binary to your local bin folder to be executable from any directory:

```bash
sudo mv engine_linux_amd64/srcd /usr/local/bin/
```

#### engine on Windows

*Windows support is coming soon!*

For status updates or if you want to help, you may check the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/src-d/engine/issues/45).

### 3. Start source{d} Engine with your local repositories

Now it's time to initialize the source{d} engine and provide it with some repositories to analyze:

```bash
# Without a path the engine operates on the local directory
# it works with nested/sub-directories
srcd init

# You can also provide a path
srcd init /home/user/replace/path/
```

**Note:**
Ensure that you initialize source{d} Engine every time you want to process a new repository.

> Changes in the `init` working directory are not detected automatically.

Reviewer 3: This is slightly ambiguous: Changes to the _contents_ of the directory are handled correctly, but changes of the working directory _path_ are not. Is that correct?

Reviewer: New repositories added to the working directory will not be detected..

I _think_ changes to the already existing repositores will be detected, e.g. a `git pull`. But I may be overlooking some internals of gitbase, like indexes. @ajnavarro?

Reviewer 4: Changes are not supported yet on gitbase: https://github.com/src-d/gitbase/issues/580

Reviewer 2: I added:
>_Database indexes are not updated automatically when its contents change, so the index should be manually recreated._
Is now correct @ajnavarro ?

Reviewer 3: Related to this, another thing that was not clear to me is that running `srcd init` again completely replaces the state of the Engine instance. This is what you want when you had an instance pointing to a repository that changed, but surprised me when I tried to "add" another repository in a different directory.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure of understanding you @creachadair 

https://github.com/src-d/engine/pull/225#discussion_r271750463
>_[...] another thing that was not clear to me is that running srcd init again completely replaces the state of the Engine instance._

It does. When you run `init` while Engine was already running, it logs:
```
INFO[0000] removing container srcd-cli-bblfshd          
INFO[0000] removing container srcd-cli-daemon           
INFO[0001] removing container srcd-cli-gitbase          
INFO[0001] starting daemon with working directory: /projects/src/github.com/src-d/engine 
```
so all containers are removed and then restored with the new working dir and config.

>_[...] This is what you want when you had an instance pointing to a repository that changed, but surprised me when I tried to "add" another repository in a different directory._

It's a limitation of gitbase: as @ajnavarro said, it does not watch for changes (what is partially true, because it listens for new commits, branches... of the listened to repos, but not for new repos nor updates indexes on new commits.

<hr />

**question:**
Would be this :point_down:  more clear in your opinion? or is also misleading or not clear?

>_**Note:** Once Engine is initialized with a working dir, it does not watch for new repository creation, so if you want to add (or delete) repositories, you need to `init` again._
>_Also, database indexes are not updated automatically when its contents change, so in those cases, the index must be manually recreated._
>_If you want to inspect different datasets, it needs to be done separately: you can `init` one working directory, perform your queries, and then change to the other dataset performing an `init` with the working directory containing it. In such situations, indexes are kept, so you can change from one dataset to the other, without having to recreate them._

The last paragraph (from _"If you want to inspect different datasets [...]"_) might be "too much", so we could omit it if you feel it goes too deep (but I see it's a reasonable and expected use case for engine)

Reviewer 2: @creachadair I just merged the PR but we left this issue opened. If my previous answer does not answer your question... or the current state is not clear enough, or in case you think that my last proposal could be better than the merged code, please let me know in order to clarify it better.
Your suggestions are pretty useful because not being an Engine developer you're more close to the user and gives us an invaluable point of view.

Reviewer 3: I think the paragraph as updated addresses my comments.

I found it a little strange that you can only have one instance running at a time, given that the whole thing is containerized atop managed volumes anyway. As you said, the log messages make it clear what's happened when you re-run `srcd init`…but it seemed counterintuitive to me that the engine couldn't manage more than one starting directory, even aside from the limitation on updates (which makes sense).

But that's not directly related to this change, so I think it was sensible to merge with what you have.

Reviewer 2: I think you're right, and it seems a very reasonable feature request that @src-d/product could consider: **being able to init two working dirs.**

But at this moment, I think it was part of its initial design, maybe (I'm not sure about it) based on the premise that source{d} Engine is meant to analyze a huge dataset (like PGA) so you'd create a dedicated environment for each dataset, or to containing for example all the code of your company.

**Note for MacOS:**

> Docker for Mac [requires file sharing](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/troubleshoot/#volume-mounting-requires-file-sharing-for-any-project-directories-outside-of-users) for any path outside of `/Users`.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: "require enabling file sharing"

### 4. Explore the source{d} Engine

> The source{d} Engine can [query code repositories](#querying-code) and its capabilities include [parsing code](#parsing-code) into [Universal Abstract Syntax Trees](#babelfish-uast) as well, via different interfaces.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The source{d} Engine provides interfaces to [query code repositories](#querying-code) and to [parse code](#parsing-code) into [Universal Abstract Syntax Trees](#babelfish-uast).
```

In this section we will cover a mix of some commands and interfaces available.

**Note:**

> The first time you run some of these commands, the source{d} Engine will download and install the Docker containers as needed. Be aware that this might take a bit of time if it is the first time you use them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The source{d} Engine will download and install Docker images on demand. Therefore, the first time you run some of these commands, they might take a bit of time to start up. Subsequent runs will be faster.
```

#### Querying code

##### Query web interface

To launch the [web client for the SQL interface](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase-web), run the following command and start executing queries:

```bash
# Launch the query web client
srcd web sql
```

This should open the [web interface](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase-web) in your browser.
You can also access it directly at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

##### Query command-line interface (CLI)

If you prefer to work within your terminal via command line, you can open a SQL REPL
that allows you to execute queries against your repositories by executing:

```bash
# Launch the query CLI REPL
srcd sql
```

If you want to run a query directly, you can also execute it as such:

```bash
# Run query via CLI
srcd sql "SHOW tables;"
```

**Note:**

> Queries using the [UAST](#babelfish-uast) function are meant for the `web sql` interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Engine's SQL supports a [UAST](#babelfish-uast) function that returns a Universal AST for the selected source text. UAST values are returned as binary blobs, and are best visualized in the `web sql` interface rather than the CLI.
```

The column for UAST will be seen as binary data in the CLI.

#### Parsing code

Sometimes you may want to parse files directly as [UASTs](#babelfish-uast).

To see which languages are available, check the table of [supported languages](#babelfish-uast).

##### Parse web client

If you want a playground to see examples of the UAST, or run your own, you can launch the [parse web client](https://github.com/bblfsh/web).

> The first time you launch the web client, it will download and install the recommended language drivers (those that are beta or higher):

Reviewer: This is not true anymore, we changed the code but missed this in the docs.
Now we install the bblfsd version that comes with all the recommended drivers bundled. I would just remove this sentence, or change it to "The first time you launch the web client, it will download and install the needed components."

```bash
# Launch the parse web client
srcd web parse
```

This should open the [web interface](https://github.com/bblfsh/web) in your browser.
You can also access it directly at [http://localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081).

##### Parse command-line interface (CLI)

Alternatively, you can also start parsing files on the command line:

```bash
# Parse file via CLI
srcd parse uast /path/to/file.java
```

To parse a file specifying the programming language:

```bash
srcd parse uast --lang=LANGUAGE /path/to/file
```

To see the installed language drivers:

```bash
srcd parse drivers list
```

> To install other language drivers use:

Reviewer: The `srcd parse drivers install` was removed since [v0.8.0](https://github.com/src-d/engine/releases/tag/v0.8.0).

```bash
srcd parse drivers install python
```

### 5. Start executing queries

> **Understand which tables are available to you to query:**

Reviewer: "are available to you to query" sounds a bit off. Maybe this could work better?
```suggestion
**Understand which tables are available for you to query:**
```

- [gitbase documentation](https://docs.sourced.tech/gitbase/): table schemas, syntax, functions, examples.
- [Babelfish documentation](https://docs.sourced.tech/babelfish/): specifications, usage, examples.

## Architecture

source{d} Engine functions as a command-line interface tool that provides easy access to components of source{d} stack for Code As Data.

It consists of a daemon managing all of the services, which are packaged as Docker containers:

- [enry](https://github.com/src-d/enry): language classifier
- [babelfish](https://doc.bblf.sh): universal code parser
  - [daemon](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd): Babelfish server
  - [language drivers](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adriver+org%3Abblfsh&type=Repositories): parsers + normalizers for programming languages
  - [babelfish-web](https://github.com/bblfsh/web): web client for Babelfish server
- [gitbase](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase): SQL database interface to Git repositories
  - [gitbase-web](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase-web): web client for gitbase

For more details on the architecture of this project, read [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md).

> <img src="./docs/architecture-diagram.png" alt="source{d} Engine"height="150" />

Reviewer: Broken image, does not render.

Reviewer 2: wow, fixed!

Reviewer: I still see it does not render:
https://github.com/src-d/engine/blob/74e926e58cc1b2c1be5120b369a67d6a8e032bc0/README.md#architecture

Reviewer 2: Removed HTML as agreed.
I double checked it, and it's rendering.

## Guides and Examples

For the full list of the commands supported by `srcd` and those
on the roadmap, please read [commands.md](docs/commands.md).

> Collection of documentation, guides, examples using the source{d} Engine:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is a collection of documentation, guides, and examples using the source{d} Engine:
```

- [Babelfish documentation](https://docs.sourced.tech/babelfish/): specifications, usage, examples.
- [SonarSource Java Static Analysis Rules using Babelfish](https://github.com/bblfsh/sonar-checks)
- A lot more coming soon!

## Architecture

The source{d} Engine functions as a command-line interface tool that provides easy access to components of the source{d} stack for Code As Data.

It consists of a daemon managing all of the services, which are packaged as Docker containers:

- [enry](https://github.com/src-d/enry): language classifier
- [babelfish](https://doc.bblf.sh): universal code parser
  - [daemon](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd): Babelfish server
  - [language drivers](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adriver+org%3Abblfsh&type=Repositories): parsers + normalizers for programming languages
  - [babelfish-web](https://github.com/bblfsh/web): web client for Babelfish server
- [gitbase](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase): SQL database interface to Git repositories
  - [gitbase-web](https://github.com/src-d/gitbase-web): web client for gitbase

For more details on the architecture of this project, read [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md).

> <img src="./architecture-diagram.png" alt="source{d} Engine"height="150" />

Reviewer: This is not rendering, I think the path should be
```suggestion
<img src="./docs/architecture-diagram.png" alt="source{d} Engine"height="150" />
```

## Babelfish UAST

### Definition

> One of the most important components of the source{d} engine is the UAST, which stands for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most important components of the source{d} Engine is the UAST, which stands for:
```
